how do their mmm super Mongoose here for
another episode of my taken as you can
see by title today's topic is RPGs now
whenever you're listening to this video
I want you to keep two things in mind 1
i'm talking about traditional turn-based
RPG so your final fantasies Your Dragon
Warriors etc 2 I do like RPGs I'm
playing through two of them right now in
fact I'm playing through legend of
dragoon on the ps1 and I'm also playing
through phantasy star 1 on the Sega
Master System so keep those things in
mind and let's get in today's topic now
whenever I started listing all my games
up on gamespot I've been going through
pretty much every single game on every
system as I'm going through it and I
check the scores I check some videos and
reviews and I like to you know basically
go through every game and see if someday
I would like to to own it and if so then
I write it down so that way I have a
list of all the games that I wouldn't
mind owning some day and play but I
started noticing that RPGs generally
we're getting much higher scores from
users than from the reviewers so from
everyday people like you and me were
giving it much higher scores than actual
reviewers now I know reviewers sometimes
give you know scores that aren't fair
but this is something that I was
noticing across multiple systems and I
also noticed that the prices for RPGs
are rather expensive if you're looking
at a system generally the highest price
games other than games that are
legitimately rare ones that had limited
print more often than not it's RPGs and
you look at something like you know
final fantasy 7 something that has you
know millions and millions of copies
sold still sells for quite a fair penny
on an ebay so I start of thinking why do
people love these old RPGs so much
I mean they can't all be fantastic
there's got to be something else at work
here so what I sort of thinking is at
this theory now my theory is that people
love them people have great memories of
them because they're repetitive now they
may not make a lot of sense raft the bat
but but listen here now RPGs are
extremely repetitive right some of them
you some of them you spend grinding a
third half of the game sometimes more
than half is spent using the same
attacks with the same characters against
the same enemies you hear the same music
the same battle noises over and over
again for 10 15 20 sometimes more hours
in a single game and because of that
these noises these battle animations all
this stuff is ingrained in your memory
so in the future whenever you see that
again you hear that again your brain
goes ah I know this I'm comfortable with
this and your brain likes that so I'm
thinking that this repetitiveness is
what creates this nostalgia this intense
nostalgia that people feel for old RPGs
as opposed to other games you know
platformers puzzle games things like
that and before you you know think that
that doesn't make any sense let me give
you an example of what really got me
thinking about this now a couple summers
ago i got wii fit and i played it pretty
much every day for three months not it
you know not every single day but at
least 5-6 times out of a week I would do
we fit I would do at eleven o'clock
every single day I would do the same
pretty much the same exercises that here
the same music and then I stopped
because school started and I really
didn't have time for it so I stopped
playing it for about eight nine months
and then school ended and it was a
summer yet and I had time to play wii
fit again so what I did was I popped it
in you know I weighed myself but I had
such a powerful rush of nostalgia
probably one of the most
full rushes of nostalgia I've had in a
long time for Wii Fit it's not even a
game it's a piece of software that helps
you exercise so why did I feel all this
nostalgia for Wii Fit of all things it's
because it was the same thing over and
over because it was repetitive because
my brain was comfortable with that
situation with doing those exercises
because I'd done it so many times so
this is a really intense example so if
something like we fit a piece of
software can through repetitiveness give
me a nostalgia why couldn't you know
something like Final Fantasy 1 do that
for you or dragon warrior three do that
for you you know you know something like
Chrono Trigger or final fantasy 7
something like that I think that this
makes a lot of sense so overall in a
nutshell my theory is that past RPGs are
overrated and overpriced because people
often feel intense nostalgia for them
and this is due to the repetitive nature
now of course this doesn't apply to all
RPGs and I'm not saying that RPGs aren't
good all I'm saying is that this is just
a theory for the scores and prices so
I'm gonna ask you add some questions one
what do you think of my theory does it
make sense is it crazy and why do you
think that too what do you think of RPGs
in general I'm just curious you know do
you love them you hate them and why
three what's your favorite RPG just
because I'm curious I'm curious to know
and maybe even what's your least
favorite how about this my fourth
question will be is there any RPG that
you don't like but you feel intense
nostalgia for maybe not you don't like
but maybe you know is a very bad bad or
PG and maybe it'll add something to this
theory of mine so that's basically my my
take on it again i'm not saying rpgs
suck I like RPGs as much as the next guy
but this is just a little theory at
floating around in my head and I want to
share it with you guys so answer my four
questions you know below and let me know
what you guys think this has been silver
Mongoose videos and thanks for listening
remember classic gaming never gets old